Professor:
EarSketch, like most
programming environments,
has a console that can show us
information about
the state of our program.
We can use the console
to help us debug
all different kinds of errors.
And in this video,
we’ll look at how to use
the console to debug
syntax errors.
We have a short script here,
which has four
syntax errors in it.
Pause the video
for a minute and see
if you can find all four.
Okay, now let’s use
the console to help us find
and fix those four
syntax errors.
We can see immediately
two red X’s that are
showing up in the code editor.
Those are showing us
console messages before we even
have to hit the Run button
and look for them.
So if I move my mouse
over that first red X here,
we can see
the first console message.
It says,
“Expected end parenthesis
and instead saw semicolon.”
And if we look at this line
14 here, we can see setTempo(),
beginning parenthesis,
120, semicolon.
We’re missing
the end parenthesis.
If I add that in,
that red X immediately
goes away and I’ve fixed
one of my syntax errors.
Now, let’s look at line 17
and see what that red X says.
It says,
“Expected end parenthesis
and instead saw 1.”
So if we look here,
we can see there is
a sound file constant
and the number 1 indicating
that the sound is going
to go on track 1.
There’s no comma in between
the two of them,
and so that is why
the computer got confused.
So if I add
a semicolon in there,
again, I've fixed another syntax
error
and that second red X
has gone away.
So we’ve found two
of the syntax errors now,
but there’s two more.
How do we find those?
Well, for that, we need
to actually run the script.
And when I hit the Run button,
I’ll see another error message
show up down here
in the console.
The console always appears
underneath the Code Editor.
If for some reason
you don’t see it,
you can toggle it on and off
using this icon up here.
So let’s read
this console message.
It says, “EarSketch scripts
must consist of init(),
setTempo(),
and finish() functions.”
Well, I see init() here,
and I see setTempo() there.
I don’t see finish() here.
So let’s add finish()
to the end.
And I’ll hit Run again.
And now we have
one more error message.
It says “ReferenceError—
There is an error
with a variable or function name
that is not defined.”
And it tells
what is not defined.
It says it is fitMedia().
And if we look here
at fitMedia(),
we can see one very subtle
issue with it.
We’re using a lowercase m,
but the EarSketch
fitMedia() function
uses an uppercase M.
This is a very common problem
with syntax errors
when programming using
either the incorrect spelling
or incorrect capitalization
of a function name
or a variable name.
So I’ve changed
that lowercase m
to a capital M.
I can hit Run one more time.
And now I’ve fixed
all four syntax errors,
and I can see the music
in the DAW and listen to it.
[synth pluck melody]